README.rst, before:

==========
simpleflow
==========

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/simpleflow.png
    :target: http://badge.fury.io/py/simpleflow

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/botify-labs/simpleflow.png?branch=master
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/botify-labs/simpleflow

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/simpleflow/badge.png
        :target: https://crate.io/packages/simpleflow?version=latest


Simple Flow is a Python library that provides abstractions to write programs in
the `distributed dataflow paradigm
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_data_flow>`_. It relies on futures
to describe the dependencies between tasks. It coordinates the execution of
distributed tasks with Amazon `SWF <https://aws.amazon.com/swf/>`_.

A ``Future`` object models the asynchronous execution of a computation that may
end.

It tries to mimics the interface of the Python `concurrent.futures
<http://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures>`_ library.

Features
--------

- Provides a ``Future`` abstraction to define dependencies between tasks.
- Define asynchronous tasks from callables.
- Handle workflows with Amazon SWF.
- Implement replay behavior like the Amazon Flow framework.
- Handle retry of tasks that failed.
- Automatically register decorated tasks.
- Handle the completion of a decision with more than 100 tasks.
- Provides a local executor to check a workflow without Amazon SWF (see
  ``simpleflow --local`` command).
- Provides decider and activity worker process for execution with Amazon SWF.
- Ships with the ``simpleflow`` command. ``simpleflow --help`` for more information
  about the commands it supports.

Quickstart
----------

Let's take a simple example that computes the result of ``(x + 1) * 2``. You
will find this example in ``examples/basic.py``.

We need to declare the functions as activities to make them available:

.. code:: python

    from simpleflow import (
        activity,
        Workflow,
        futures,
    )

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def increment(x):
        return x + 1

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def double(x):
        return x * 2

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def delay(t, x):
        time.sleep(t)
        return x

And then define the workflow itself in a ``example.py`` file:

.. code:: python

    class BasicWorkflow(Workflow):
        name = 'basic'
        version = 'example'
        task_list = 'example'

        def run(self, x, t=30):
            y = self.submit(increment, x)
            yy = self.submit(delay, t, y)
            z = self.submit(double, y)

            print('({x} + 1) * 2 = {result}'.format(
                x=x,
                result=z.result))
            futures.wait(yy, z)
            return z.result

Now check that the workflow works locally with an integer "x" and a wait value "t"::

    $ simpleflow workflow.start --local examples.basic.BasicWorkflow --input '[1, 5]'
    (1 + 1) * 2 = 4

*input* is encoded in JSON format and can contain the list of *positional*
arguments such as ``'[1, 1]`` or a *dict* with the ``args`` and ``kwargs`` keys
such as ``{"args": [1], "kwargs": {}}``, ``{"kwargs": {"x": 1}}``, or
``'{"args": [1], "kwargs": {"t": 5}}'```.

Now that you are confident that the workflow should work, you can run it on
Amazon SWF with the ``standalone`` command::

   $ simpleflow standalone --domain TestDomain examples.basic.BasicWorkflow --input '[1, 5]'

The *standalone* command sets an unique task list and manage all the processes
that are needed to execute the workflow: decider, activity worker, and a client
that starts the workflow. It is very convenient for testing a workflow by
executing it with SWF during the development steps or integration tests.

Let's take a closer look to the workflow definition.

It is a *class* that inherits from ``simpleflow.Workflow``:

.. code:: python

    class BasicWorkflow(Workflow):

It defines 3 class attributes:

- *name*, the name of the SWF workflow type.
- *version*, the version of the SWF workflow type. It is currently provided
  only for labeling a workflow.
- *task_list*, the default task list (see it as a dynamically created queue)
  where decision tasks for this workflow will be sent. Any *decider* that
  listens on this task list can handle this workflow. This value can be
  overrided by the simpleflow commands and objects.

It also implements the ``run`` method that takes two arguments: ``x`` and
``t=30`` (i.e. ``t`` is optional and has the default value ``30``). These
arguments are passed with the ``--input`` option. The ``run`` method
describes the workflow and how its tasks should execute.

Each time a decider takes a decision task, it executes again the ``run``
from the start. When the workflow execution starts, it evaluates ``y =
self.submit(increment, x)`` for the first time. *y* holds a future in state
``PENDING``. The execution continues with the line ``yy = self.submit(delay, t,
y)``. *yy* holds another future in state ``PENDING``. This state means the task
has not been scheduled. Now execution still continue in the ``run`` method
with the line ``z = self.submit(double, y)``. Here it needs the value of the
*y* future to evaluate the ``double`` activity. As the execution cannot
continues, the decider schedules the task ``increment``. *yy* is not a
dependency for any task so it is not scheduled.

Once the decider has scheduled the task for *y*, it sleeps and waits for an
event to be waken up. This happens when the ``increment`` task completes.
SWF schedules a decision task. A decider takes it and executes the
``BasicWorkflow.run`` method again from the start. It evalues the line ``y
= self.submit(increment, x)``. The task associated with the *y* future has
completed. Hence *y* is in state ``FINISHED`` and contains the value ``2`` in
``y.result``. The execution continues until it blocks. It goes by ``yy =
self.submit(delay, t, y)`` that stays the same. Then it reaches ``z =
self.submit(double, y)``. It gets the value of ``y.result`` and *z* now holds a
future in state ``PENDING``. Execution reaches the line with the ``print``. It
blocks here because ``z.result`` is not available. The decider schedules the
task backs by the *z* future: ``double(y)``. The workflow execution continues
so forth by evaluating the ``BasicWorkflow.run`` again from the start until
it finishes.

Commands
--------

Overview
~~~~~~~~

Please read and even run the ``demo`` script to have a quick glance of
``simpleflow`` commands. To run the ``demo``  you will need to start decider
and activity worker processes.

Start a decider with::

    $ simpleflow decider.start --domain TestDomain --task-list test examples.basic.BasicWorkflow

Start an activity worker with::

    $ simpleflow worker.start --domain TestDomain --task-list quickstart

Then execute ``./extras/demo``.

Controlling SWF access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SWF region is controlled by the environment variable ``AWS_DEFAULT_REGION``. This variable
comes from the legacy "simple-workflow" project. The option might be exposed through a
``--region`` option in the future (if you want that, please open an issue).

The SWF domain is controlled by the ``--domain`` on most simpleflow commands. It can also
be set via the ``SWF_DOMAIN`` environment variable. In case both are supplied, the
command-line value takes precedence over the environment variable.

Note that some simpleflow commands expect the domain to be passed as a positionnal argument.
In that case the environment variable has no effect for now.

The number of retries for accessing SWF can be controlled via ``SWF_CONNECTION_RETRIES``
(defaults to 5).

List Workflow Executions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    $ simpleflow workflow.list TestDomain
    basic-example-1438722273  basic  OPEN

Workflow Execution Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.info TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    domain      workflow_type.name    workflow_type.version      task_list  workflow_id               run_id                                          tag_list      execution_time  input
    TestDomain  basic                 example                               basic-example-1438722273  22QFVi362TnCh6BdoFgkQFlocunh24zEOemo1L12Yl5Go=                          1.70  {u'args': [1], u'kwargs': {}}

Tasks Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can check the status of the workflow execution with::

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks DOMAIN WORKFLOW_ID [RUN_ID] --nb-tasks 3
    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Tasks                     Last State    Last State Time             Scheduled Time
    examples.basic.increment  scheduled     2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000  2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000
    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Tasks                     Last State    Last State Time             Scheduled Time
    examples.basic.double     completed     2015-08-04 23:06:19.200000  2015-08-04 23:06:17.738000
    examples.basic.delay      completed     2015-08-04 23:08:18.402000  2015-08-04 23:06:17.738000
    examples.basic.increment  completed     2015-08-04 23:06:17.503000  2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000

Profiling
~~~~~~~~~

You can profile the execution of the workflow with::

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.profile TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Task                                 Last State    Scheduled           Time Scheduled  Start               Time Running  End                 Percentage of total time
    activity-examples.basic.double-1     completed     2015-08-04 23:06              0.07  2015-08-04 23:06            1.39  2015-08-04 23:06                        1.15
    activity-examples.basic.increment-1  completed     2015-08-04 23:04            102.20  2015-08-04 23:06            0.79  2015-08-04 23:06                        0.65


Controlling log verbosity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can control log verbosity via the ``LOG_LEVEL`` environment variable. Default is ``INFO``. For instance,
the following command will start a decider with ``DEBUG`` logs:

    $ LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG simpleflow decider.start --domain TestDomain --task-list test examples.basic.BasicWorkflow


Documentation
-------------

Full documentation (work-in-progress) is available at
https://simpleflow.readthedocs.org/.

Requirements
------------

- Python 2.6.x or 2.7.x
- Python 3.x compatibility is NOT guaranteed for now: https://github.com/botify-labs/simpleflow/issues/87


Development
-----------

A ``Dockerfile`` is provided to help development on non-Linux machines.

You can build a ``simpleflow`` image with:

    ./script/docker-build

And use it with:

    ./script/docker-run

It will then mount your current directory inside the container and pass the
most relevant variables (your AWS_* credentials for instance).


Running tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run tests with:

    ./script/test

Any parameter passed to this script is propagated to the underlying call to ``py.test``.
This wrapper script sets some environment variables which control the behavior of
simpleflow during tests:

- ``SIMPLEFLOW_CLEANUP_PROCESSES``: set to ``"yes"`` in tests, so tests will clean up child
  processes after each test case. You can set it to an empty string (``""``) or omit it if
  outside ``script/test`` if you want to debug things and take care of it yourself.
- ``SIMPLEFLOW_ENV``: set to ``"test"`` in tests, which changes some constants to ease or
  speed up tests.
- ``SWF_CONNECTION_RETRIES``: set to ``"1"`` in tests, which avoids having too many retries
  on the SWF API calls (5 by default in production).
- ``SIMPLEFLOW_VCR_RECORD_MODE``: set to ``"none"`` in tests, which avoids running requests
  against the real SWF endpoints in tests. If you need to update cassettes, see
  ``tests/integration/README.md``


Release
-------

In order to release a new version, you'll need credentials on pypi.python.org for this
software, as long as write access to this repository. Ask via an issue if needed.
Rough process:

    git checkout master
    git pull --rebase
    v=0.10.0
    vi simpleflow/__init__.py
    git add . && git commit -m "Bump version to $v"
    git tag $v
    git push --tags
    python setup.py sdist upload -r pypi


License
-------

MIT licensed. See the bundled `LICENSE <https://github.com/botify-labs/simpleflow/blob/master/LICENSE>`__ file for more details.

Commit message:

Document SIMPLEFLOW_IDENTITY environment variable in README

README.rst, after:

==========
simpleflow
==========

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/simpleflow.png
    :target: http://badge.fury.io/py/simpleflow

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/botify-labs/simpleflow.png?branch=master
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/botify-labs/simpleflow

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/simpleflow/badge.png
        :target: https://crate.io/packages/simpleflow?version=latest


Simple Flow is a Python library that provides abstractions to write programs in
the `distributed dataflow paradigm
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_data_flow>`_. It relies on futures
to describe the dependencies between tasks. It coordinates the execution of
distributed tasks with Amazon `SWF <https://aws.amazon.com/swf/>`_.

A ``Future`` object models the asynchronous execution of a computation that may
end.

It tries to mimics the interface of the Python `concurrent.futures
<http://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures>`_ library.

Features
--------

- Provides a ``Future`` abstraction to define dependencies between tasks.
- Define asynchronous tasks from callables.
- Handle workflows with Amazon SWF.
- Implement replay behavior like the Amazon Flow framework.
- Handle retry of tasks that failed.
- Automatically register decorated tasks.
- Handle the completion of a decision with more than 100 tasks.
- Provides a local executor to check a workflow without Amazon SWF (see
  ``simpleflow --local`` command).
- Provides decider and activity worker process for execution with Amazon SWF.
- Ships with the ``simpleflow`` command. ``simpleflow --help`` for more information
  about the commands it supports.

Quickstart
----------

Let's take a simple example that computes the result of ``(x + 1) * 2``. You
will find this example in ``examples/basic.py``.

We need to declare the functions as activities to make them available:

.. code:: python

    from simpleflow import (
        activity,
        Workflow,
        futures,
    )

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def increment(x):
        return x + 1

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def double(x):
        return x * 2

    @activity.with_attributes(task_list='quickstart', version='example')
    def delay(t, x):
        time.sleep(t)
        return x

And then define the workflow itself in a ``example.py`` file:

.. code:: python

    class BasicWorkflow(Workflow):
        name = 'basic'
        version = 'example'
        task_list = 'example'

        def run(self, x, t=30):
            y = self.submit(increment, x)
            yy = self.submit(delay, t, y)
            z = self.submit(double, y)

            print('({x} + 1) * 2 = {result}'.format(
                x=x,
                result=z.result))
            futures.wait(yy, z)
            return z.result

Now check that the workflow works locally with an integer "x" and a wait value "t"::

    $ simpleflow workflow.start --local examples.basic.BasicWorkflow --input '[1, 5]'
    (1 + 1) * 2 = 4

*input* is encoded in JSON format and can contain the list of *positional*
arguments such as ``'[1, 1]`` or a *dict* with the ``args`` and ``kwargs`` keys
such as ``{"args": [1], "kwargs": {}}``, ``{"kwargs": {"x": 1}}``, or
``'{"args": [1], "kwargs": {"t": 5}}'```.

Now that you are confident that the workflow should work, you can run it on
Amazon SWF with the ``standalone`` command::

   $ simpleflow standalone --domain TestDomain examples.basic.BasicWorkflow --input '[1, 5]'

The *standalone* command sets an unique task list and manage all the processes
that are needed to execute the workflow: decider, activity worker, and a client
that starts the workflow. It is very convenient for testing a workflow by
executing it with SWF during the development steps or integration tests.

Let's take a closer look to the workflow definition.

It is a *class* that inherits from ``simpleflow.Workflow``:

.. code:: python

    class BasicWorkflow(Workflow):

It defines 3 class attributes:

- *name*, the name of the SWF workflow type.
- *version*, the version of the SWF workflow type. It is currently provided
  only for labeling a workflow.
- *task_list*, the default task list (see it as a dynamically created queue)
  where decision tasks for this workflow will be sent. Any *decider* that
  listens on this task list can handle this workflow. This value can be
  overrided by the simpleflow commands and objects.

It also implements the ``run`` method that takes two arguments: ``x`` and
``t=30`` (i.e. ``t`` is optional and has the default value ``30``). These
arguments are passed with the ``--input`` option. The ``run`` method
describes the workflow and how its tasks should execute.

Each time a decider takes a decision task, it executes again the ``run``
from the start. When the workflow execution starts, it evaluates ``y =
self.submit(increment, x)`` for the first time. *y* holds a future in state
``PENDING``. The execution continues with the line ``yy = self.submit(delay, t,
y)``. *yy* holds another future in state ``PENDING``. This state means the task
has not been scheduled. Now execution still continue in the ``run`` method
with the line ``z = self.submit(double, y)``. Here it needs the value of the
*y* future to evaluate the ``double`` activity. As the execution cannot
continues, the decider schedules the task ``increment``. *yy* is not a
dependency for any task so it is not scheduled.

Once the decider has scheduled the task for *y*, it sleeps and waits for an
event to be waken up. This happens when the ``increment`` task completes.
SWF schedules a decision task. A decider takes it and executes the
``BasicWorkflow.run`` method again from the start. It evalues the line ``y
= self.submit(increment, x)``. The task associated with the *y* future has
completed. Hence *y* is in state ``FINISHED`` and contains the value ``2`` in
``y.result``. The execution continues until it blocks. It goes by ``yy =
self.submit(delay, t, y)`` that stays the same. Then it reaches ``z =
self.submit(double, y)``. It gets the value of ``y.result`` and *z* now holds a
future in state ``PENDING``. Execution reaches the line with the ``print``. It
blocks here because ``z.result`` is not available. The decider schedules the
task backs by the *z* future: ``double(y)``. The workflow execution continues
so forth by evaluating the ``BasicWorkflow.run`` again from the start until
it finishes.

Commands
--------

Overview
~~~~~~~~

Please read and even run the ``demo`` script to have a quick glance of
``simpleflow`` commands. To run the ``demo``  you will need to start decider
and activity worker processes.

Start a decider with::

    $ simpleflow decider.start --domain TestDomain --task-list test examples.basic.BasicWorkflow

Start an activity worker with::

    $ simpleflow worker.start --domain TestDomain --task-list quickstart

Then execute ``./extras/demo``.

Controlling SWF access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SWF region is controlled by the environment variable ``AWS_DEFAULT_REGION``. This variable
comes from the legacy "simple-workflow" project. The option might be exposed through a
``--region`` option in the future (if you want that, please open an issue).

The SWF domain is controlled by the ``--domain`` on most simpleflow commands. It can also
be set via the ``SWF_DOMAIN`` environment variable. In case both are supplied, the
command-line value takes precedence over the environment variable.

Note that some simpleflow commands expect the domain to be passed as a positionnal argument.
In that case the environment variable has no effect for now.

The number of retries for accessing SWF can be controlled via ``SWF_CONNECTION_RETRIES``
(defaults to 5).

The identity of SWF activity workers and deciders can be controlled via ``SIMPLEFLOW_IDENTITY``
which should be a JSON-serialized string representing ``{ "key": "value" }`` pairs that
adds up (or override) the basic identity provided by simpleflow. If some value is null in
this JSON map, then the key is removed from the final SWF identity.


List Workflow Executions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    $ simpleflow workflow.list TestDomain
    basic-example-1438722273  basic  OPEN

Workflow Execution Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.info TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    domain      workflow_type.name    workflow_type.version      task_list  workflow_id               run_id                                          tag_list      execution_time  input
    TestDomain  basic                 example                               basic-example-1438722273  22QFVi362TnCh6BdoFgkQFlocunh24zEOemo1L12Yl5Go=                          1.70  {u'args': [1], u'kwargs': {}}

Tasks Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can check the status of the workflow execution with::

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks DOMAIN WORKFLOW_ID [RUN_ID] --nb-tasks 3
    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Tasks                     Last State    Last State Time             Scheduled Time
    examples.basic.increment  scheduled     2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000  2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000
    $ simpleflow --header workflow.tasks TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Tasks                     Last State    Last State Time             Scheduled Time
    examples.basic.double     completed     2015-08-04 23:06:19.200000  2015-08-04 23:06:17.738000
    examples.basic.delay      completed     2015-08-04 23:08:18.402000  2015-08-04 23:06:17.738000
    examples.basic.increment  completed     2015-08-04 23:06:17.503000  2015-08-04 23:04:34.510000

Profiling
~~~~~~~~~

You can profile the execution of the workflow with::

    $ simpleflow --header workflow.profile TestDomain basic-example-1438722273
    Task                                 Last State    Scheduled           Time Scheduled  Start               Time Running  End                 Percentage of total time
    activity-examples.basic.double-1     completed     2015-08-04 23:06              0.07  2015-08-04 23:06            1.39  2015-08-04 23:06                        1.15
    activity-examples.basic.increment-1  completed     2015-08-04 23:04            102.20  2015-08-04 23:06            0.79  2015-08-04 23:06                        0.65


Controlling log verbosity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can control log verbosity via the ``LOG_LEVEL`` environment variable. Default is ``INFO``. For instance,
the following command will start a decider with ``DEBUG`` logs:

    $ LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG simpleflow decider.start --domain TestDomain --task-list test examples.basic.BasicWorkflow


Documentation
-------------

Full documentation (work-in-progress) is available at
https://simpleflow.readthedocs.org/.

Requirements
------------

- Python 2.6.x or 2.7.x
- Python 3.x compatibility is NOT guaranteed for now: https://github.com/botify-labs/simpleflow/issues/87


Development
-----------

A ``Dockerfile`` is provided to help development on non-Linux machines.

You can build a ``simpleflow`` image with:

    ./script/docker-build

And use it with:

    ./script/docker-run

It will then mount your current directory inside the container and pass the
most relevant variables (your AWS_* credentials for instance).


Running tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run tests with:

    ./script/test

Any parameter passed to this script is propagated to the underlying call to ``py.test``.
This wrapper script sets some environment variables which control the behavior of
simpleflow during tests:

- ``SIMPLEFLOW_CLEANUP_PROCESSES``: set to ``"yes"`` in tests, so tests will clean up child
  processes after each test case. You can set it to an empty string (``""``) or omit it if
  outside ``script/test`` if you want to debug things and take care of it yourself.
- ``SIMPLEFLOW_ENV``: set to ``"test"`` in tests, which changes some constants to ease or
  speed up tests.
- ``SWF_CONNECTION_RETRIES``: set to ``"1"`` in tests, which avoids having too many retries
  on the SWF API calls (5 by default in production).
- ``SIMPLEFLOW_VCR_RECORD_MODE``: set to ``"none"`` in tests, which avoids running requests
  against the real SWF endpoints in tests. If you need to update cassettes, see
  ``tests/integration/README.md``


Release
-------

In order to release a new version, you'll need credentials on pypi.python.org for this
software, as long as write access to this repository. Ask via an issue if needed.
Rough process:

    git checkout master
    git pull --rebase
    v=0.10.0
    vi simpleflow/__init__.py
    git add . && git commit -m "Bump version to $v"
    git tag $v
    git push --tags
    python setup.py sdist upload -r pypi


License
-------

MIT licensed. See the bundled `LICENSE <https://github.com/botify-labs/simpleflow/blob/master/LICENSE>`__ file for more details.
